README.md, before:

# Databricks Onsite Workshop

Workshop setup for SQL analytics and Delta Live Tables pipeline exercises using partner/transaction data.

## Contents

- `01_create_catalog_and_schema.sql` - Creates catalog and schema
- `02_load_data.sql` - Loads sample data (21 partners, 50 transactions, 6 products)
- `03_grant_permissions.sql` - Grants participant access
- `sales_analytics_pipeline.sql` - Afternoon hands-on exercise (8-node medallion pipeline)
- `data/` - JSON source files

## Prerequisites

- Databricks workspace with Serverless SQL and Serverless Pipelines enabled
- Admin access to create catalogs and grant permissions

## Setup (10 minutes)

### 1. Create User Group
Go to **Settings → Identity and Access → Groups**, create group `onsite_workshop_participants`, add all participant emails.

### 2. Clone Repository
Go to **Repos** → **Add Repo** → Enter URL: `https://github.com/vladimir-cristea/databricks-onsite-workshop` → **Create Repo**

### 3. Run Setup Scripts
Open SQL Editor and run in order:
1. `01_create_catalog_and_schema.sql`
2. `02_load_data.sql`
3. `03_grant_permissions.sql`

### 4. Verify

```sql
USE CATALOG onsite_workshop;
USE SCHEMA shared_data;

SELECT 'partners' as table_name, COUNT(*) as row_count FROM partners
UNION ALL SELECT 'products', COUNT(*) FROM products
UNION ALL SELECT 'transactions', COUNT(*) FROM transactions
UNION ALL SELECT 'partner_revenue_summary', COUNT(*) FROM partner_revenue_summary
UNION ALL SELECT 'product_performance_summary', COUNT(*) FROM product_performance_summary;
```

Expected: partners (21), products (6), transactions (50), summaries (~20-25 rows)

## Workshop Day

**Morning**: Participants query the shared tables in `onsite_workshop.shared_data`

**Afternoon**: Participants create DLT pipeline from `sales_analytics_pipeline.sql`:
1. Create new DLT pipeline
2. Add `sales_analytics_pipeline.sql` as notebook source
3. Configure pipeline:
   - Parameter: `username` = their_username
   - Target: `onsite_workshop.${username}`
4. Complete TODO sections in Gold layer
5. Run pipeline

Creates 8 nodes: 3 Bronze streaming tables, 3 Silver streaming tables, 2 Gold materialized views in their personal schema

## Troubleshooting

**"Permission denied"**: Verify group name is exactly `onsite_workshop_participants` and participants are members

**"Path not found"**: Verify repo is cloned and paths in SQL files match your repo location

## Cleanup

```sql
DROP CATALOG IF EXISTS onsite_workshop CASCADE;
```

Commit message:

Switch to volumes for data storage and update paths

README.md, after:

# Databricks Onsite Workshop

Workshop setup for SQL analytics and Delta Live Tables pipeline exercises using partner/transaction data.

## Contents

- `01_create_catalog_and_schema.sql` - Creates catalog and schema
- `02_load_data.sql` - Loads sample data (21 partners, 50 transactions, 6 products)
- `03_grant_permissions.sql` - Grants participant access
- `sales_analytics_pipeline.sql` - Afternoon hands-on exercise (8-node medallion pipeline)
- `data/` - JSON source files

## Prerequisites

- Databricks workspace with Serverless SQL and Serverless Pipelines enabled
- Admin access to create catalogs and grant permissions

## Setup (10 minutes)

### 1. Create User Group
Go to **Settings → Identity and Access → Groups**, create group `onsite_workshop_participants`, add all participant emails.

### 2. Clone Repository and Upload Data
1. Go to **Repos** → **Add Repo** → Enter URL: `https://github.com/vladimir-cristea/databricks-onsite-workshop` → **Create Repo**
2. After running script 01, upload data files to the volume:
   - Navigate to **Catalog** → `onsite_workshop` → `shared_data` → `data` volume
   - Upload the 3 JSON files from the cloned repo's `data/` folder

### 3. Run Setup Scripts
Open SQL Editor and run in order:
1. `01_create_catalog_and_schema.sql`
2. `02_load_data.sql`
3. `03_grant_permissions.sql`

### 4. Verify

```sql
USE CATALOG onsite_workshop;
USE SCHEMA shared_data;

SELECT 'partners' as table_name, COUNT(*) as row_count FROM partners
UNION ALL SELECT 'products', COUNT(*) FROM products
UNION ALL SELECT 'transactions', COUNT(*) FROM transactions
UNION ALL SELECT 'partner_revenue_summary', COUNT(*) FROM partner_revenue_summary
UNION ALL SELECT 'product_performance_summary', COUNT(*) FROM product_performance_summary;
```

Expected: partners (21), products (6), transactions (50), summaries (~20-25 rows)

## Workshop Day

**Morning**: Participants query the shared tables in `onsite_workshop.shared_data`

**Afternoon**: Participants create DLT pipeline from `sales_analytics_pipeline.sql`:
1. Create new DLT pipeline
2. Add `sales_analytics_pipeline.sql` as notebook source
3. Configure pipeline:
   - Parameter: `username` = their_username
   - Target: `onsite_workshop.${username}`
4. Complete TODO sections in Gold layer
5. Run pipeline

Creates 8 nodes: 3 Bronze streaming tables, 3 Silver streaming tables, 2 Gold materialized views in their personal schema

## Troubleshooting

**"Permission denied"**: Verify group name is exactly `onsite_workshop_participants` and participants are members

**"Path not found"**: Verify data files are uploaded to volume `/Volumes/onsite_workshop/shared_data/data/`

## Cleanup

```sql
DROP CATALOG IF EXISTS onsite_workshop CASCADE;
```
